The President:
On Thursday, I paid a visit to
a small business in Buffalo,
New York, a town that's been
hard hit in recent decades.
I heard from folks about the
struggles they've been facing
for longer than they
care to remember.
And I talked with them about
what my administration is doing
to help our families,
our small businesses,
and our economy rebound
from this recession.
Jumpstarting job creation in the
private sector and fostering a
climate that encourages
businesses to hire again is
vitally important -- and I'll continue working hard to make
sure that happens.
But my responsibility as
President isn't just to help our
economy rebound from
this recession --
it's to make sure an economic
crisis like the one that helped
trigger this recession
never happens again.
That's what Wall Street
reform will help us do.
In recent weeks, there's been a
lot of back and forth about the
reform bill currently making
its way through Congress.
There's been a lot of discussion
about technical aspects of the
bill, and a lot of heated -- and frankly, sometimes misleading --
rhetoric coming from
opponents of reform.
All of this has helped obscure
what reform would actually mean
for you, the American people.
So, I just wanted to take a few
minutes to talk about why every
American has a stake
in Wall Street reform.
First and foremost, you have a
stake in it if you've ever been
treated unfairly by a
credit card company,
misled by pages and
pages of fine print,
or ended up paying fees and
penalties you'd never heard of before.
And you have a stake in it if
you've ever tried to take out a
home loan, a car loan,
or a student loan,
and been targeted by the
predatory practices of
unscrupulous lenders.
The Wall Street reform bill
in Congress represents the
strongest consumer financial
protections in history.
You'll be empowered with the
clear and concise information
you need to make the choices
that are best for you.
We'll help stop
predatory practices,
and curb unscrupulous lenders,
helping secure your family's
financial future.
That's why families
have a stake in it.
And our community banks also
have a stake in reform.
These are banks we count on to
provide the capital that lets
our small businesses
hire and grow.
The way the system
is currently set up,
these banks are at a
disadvantage because while they
often play by the rules,
many of their less scrupulous
competitors are not
playing by the rules.
So, what reform will do is help
level the playing field by
making sure all of our lenders -- not just community banks --
are subject to tough oversight.
That's good news for
our community banks,
which is why we've received
letters from some of these banks
in support of reform.
What's true for our community
banks is also true for small
businessmen and women like
the ones I met in Buffalo.
These small businesses were some
of the worst victims of the
excessive risk-taking on Wall
Street that led to this crisis.
Their credit dried up.
They had to let people go.
Some even shut their
doors altogether.
And unless we put in
place real safeguards,
we could see it
happen all over again.
That's why Wall Street
reform is so important.
With reform, we'll make
our financial system more
transparent by bringing
the kinds of complex,
backroom deals that helped
trigger this crisis into the
light of day.
We'll prevent banks from
taking on so much risk that --
could collapse and
threaten our entire economy.
And we'll give shareholders more
of a say on pay to help change
the perverse incentives that
encouraged reckless risk-taking
in the first place.
Put simply, Wall Street reform
will bring greater security to
folks on Main Street.
The stories I heard in Buffalo
this week were a reminder that,
despite the progress we've made,
we need to keep working hard,
so we can build on that progress
and rebound from this recession
in the short-term.
But even as we do, we also need
to lay a new foundation for
growth and shared prosperity
over the long-term.
Next week, we have a chance to
help lay a cornerstone in that foundation.
The reform bill being debated in
the Senate will not solve every
problem in our financial
system -- no bill could.
But what this strong bill
will do is important,
and I urge the Senate to
pass it as soon as possible,
so we can secure America's
economic future in the 21st century.